Spiral Model For Bank Management System:

The Bank Account Management System is an application for maintaining a person's account in a bank. In this project we tried to show the working of a banking account system and cover the basic functionality of a Bank Account Management System. To develop a project for solving financial applications of a customer in banking environment in order to nurture the needs of an end banking user by providing various ways to perform banking tasks. Also to enable the user’s work space to have additional functionalities which are not provided under a
conventional banking project. The Bank Account Management System undertaken as a project is based on relevant technologies.

1) Determine objectives and find alternate solutions
To design an online database that will provide complementary assistance to bank
customers without going to bank for transactions. To design a software package that will ensure timely processing and retrieving of information. To provide a system that is very effective, efficient, secure and reliable. It also includes estimating the cost, schedule and resources for the iteration.

2) Risk Analysis and resolving
Bank risk is usually referred to as the potential loss to a bank due to the occurrence of particular events. Key risks in banking include credit risk, interest rate risk, market risk, liquidity risk, and operational risk. Interest rate risk (in the banking book) is related to the adverse movements in interest rates of bank assets, liabilities, and/or off-balance sheet items. A change in the interest rate affects a bank’s expected interest incomes and expenses and thus affects its future marginal profits. Credit risk- exposure to credit risk is the largest and major source of problems in most banks. Credit risk does not only derive from loans but also from other activities on both banking book and trading book, as well as on- and off-balance sheets. Market risk is “the risk of losses in on and off-balance-sheet positions arising from movements in market prices” Operational risk is “the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events”

3) Development and Testing
In the development phase of the banking system firstly detailed designing, coding,
integration, testing and implementation for a software is done. In bank software testing is carried out for the functionality, performance, and security. The major goal of banking application testing is to guarantee that all of a banking software's actions and features work properly with no problems and that it is secure.

4) Review and planning of the next
In this phase software is deployed to the customer for evaluation. It also includes identifying and monitoring risks such as schedule slippage and cost overrun And planning of the next phase is started.